# BabySoC Functional Modelling

## 📌 Objective

To understand **System-on-Chip (SoC) fundamentals** and practice **functional modelling** of the BabySoC using simulation tools:

-   **Icarus Verilog (iverilog)** for compiling and simulating Verilog modules.
    
-   **GTKWave** for analyzing waveforms (.vcd).


### Module Descriptions

<details>
   <summary><strong>2.1 vsdbabysoc.v (Top-Level SoC Module)</strong></summary>
      This is the top-level module that integrates the rvmyth, pll, and dac modules.<br>
  
      
   
   ```verilog
module vsdbabysoc (
   output wire OUT,
   //
   input  wire reset,
   //
   input  wire VCO_IN,
   input  wire ENb_CP,
   input  wire ENb_VCO,
   input  wire REF,
   //
   // input  wire VREFL,
   input  wire VREFH
);

   wire CLK;
   wire [9:0] RV_TO_DAC;

   rvmyth core (
      .OUT(RV_TO_DAC),
      .CLK(CLK),
      .reset(reset)
   );

   avsdpll pll (
      .CLK(CLK),
      .VCO_IN(VCO_IN),
      .ENb_CP(ENb_CP),
      .ENb_VCO(ENb_VCO),
      .REF(REF)
   );

   avsddac dac (
      .OUT(OUT),
      .D(RV_TO_DAC),
      // .VREFL(VREFL),
      .VREFH(VREFH)
   );
   
endmodule

      
</details>

   <details>
     <summary><strong>2.2 rvmyth.v (RISC-V Core)</strong></summary>
     The rvmyth module is a simple RISC-V based processor. It outputs a 10-bit digital signal (OUT) to be converted by the DAC.<br>
     [rvmyth](https://github.com/kunalg123/rvmyth/)
      
      Inputs:
         - CLK: Clock signal generated by the PLL.
         - reset: Initializes or resets the processor.
      Outputs:
         - OUT: A 10-bit digital signal representing processed data to be sent to the DAC.
         
   </details>

   <details>
     <summary><strong>2.3 avsdpll.v (PLL Module)</strong></summary>
     The pll module is a phase-locked loop that generates a stable clock (CLK) for the RISC-V core.<br>
     [Introduction](https://github.com/ireneann713/PLL.git)
     [avsdpll](https://github.com/lakshmi-sathi/avsdpll_1v8.git)
      
      Inputs:
         - VCO_IN, ENb_CP, ENb_VCO, REF: Control and reference signals for PLL operation.
      Output:
         - CLK: A stable clock signal for synchronizing the core and other modules.
         
         
   </details>

   <details>
     <summary><strong>2.4 avsddac.v (DAC Module)</strong></summary>
     The dac module converts the 10-bit digital signal from the rvmyth core to an analog output.<br>
     [avsddac](https://github.com/vsdip/rvmyth_avsddac_interface.git)
      
      Inputs:
         - D: A 10-bit digital input from the processor.
         - VREFH: Reference voltage for the DAC.
      Output:
         - OUT: Analog output signal.

         
   </details>
